Angel and the Ape was a humor comic book created by E. Nelson Bridwell & Bob Oksner published by DC Comics. The characters first appeared in 1968 in Showcase #77[1] then graduated to their own title, with art by comic artist Bob Oksner, most often inked by Wally Wood. The title lasted for seven issues, changing its name to Meet Angel for its final appearance.[2]Angel O'Day is a private investigator who manages the O'Day and Simeon Detective Agency with her partner Sam Simeon.[3] Sam differs from many stereotypical detectives; besides helping Angel, Sam is both a comic book artist and a talking gorilla.[4] Sam's name is a double-pun on the word "simian" ("of or pertaining to an ape or monkey") and the San Simeon estate of publisher William Randolph Hearst.[5] In the first few stories, Sam draws comics for a self-obsessed editor named Stan Bragg, then moves to a competitor, working for Morton Stoops.[6]The series has been revived twice. The first was by Phil Foglio in the 1990s, where Angel and the Ape stuck true to its zany roots. In Phil Foglio's 1991 mini-series, Angel is revealed to be the half-sister of the Dumb Bunny, a member of the super-heroic group the Inferior Five, also created by Bridwell. Sam is changed, too; he is not only employed by "DZ Comics" as an artist, but is also the grandson of Gorilla Grodd, a nemesis of the Flash. As such, Sam has mental powers that he can use to make a limited number of people see him as a human being. However, a break in his concentration allows people to see him in his true form. This is in contrast to the original series, wherein people see Sam's true form but convince themselves he is simply an unusually ape-like human male, since it is "impossible" for there to be such a thing as a talking gorilla.A second revival was made in early 2001 under DC's Vertigo imprint, with a vastly different take. The four-issue limited series was written by Howard Chaykin and David Tischman, with art by Philip Bond and covers by Arthur Adams.The two appeared in a one-page story in DC Holiday Special '09, written and drawn by Andrew Pepoy.In 2011, "The New 52" rebooted the DC universe. Sam Simeon was a scientist at A.R.G.U.S. where he was paired with Dr. O'Day. An accident involving gorilla DNA from Gorilla City turned Sam into a humanoid gorilla. During the "Forever Evil" storyline, Simeon fell under the control of Cheetah who had him operate as Primeape.[7]In 2012, Angel and Sam appeared in a segment of the anthology title Joe Kubert Presents.Angel and Sam are briefly seen when they sense Miguel Montez using the H-Dial for the first time.[8]Angel O'Day appears in the Young Justice episode "Influence", voiced by Danica McKellar. She is a civilian in Los Angeles who Beast Boy got a selfie with.A variation of Sam Simeon appears in the tie-in comics of Young Justice. This version is depicted as the son of Gorilla Grodd and Primat.