Big Man is the name of different fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.Frederick Foswell was the first person to assume the Big Man mantle.[1] He used to be a reporter for the Daily Bugle, but in reality he lived a secret life as a criminal boss named Big Man. He was eventually defeated by Spider-Man after which he apparently turned new leaf. He died saving J. Jonah Jameson by taking a bullet for him.Janice Foswell is the daughter of the original Big Man (Frederick Foswell) and sought to follow in her father's footsteps to gain control of the New York underworld. She was soon joined by a new Crime Master and Sandman.[2]She and her Enforcers were defeated by Spider-Man, the Human Torch and the Sons of the Tiger. Over a dispute about eliminating Spider-Man and the Sons, Janice was killed by the Crime Master who turned out to be her fiancé and son of the original Crime-Master, Nick Lewis Jr. (both had separately pursued vengeance against Spider-Man without knowledge of each other's identity).[3]Frederick Foswell Jr is the son of the Frederick Foswell and the brother of Janice Foswell. He took over the role to gain revenge for the death of his father and sister, which, owing to J. Jonah Jameson's then-hostile attitude towards Spider-Man, he blamed on the webslinger. Using one of Arcade's Murderworlds, Foswell Jr. attacked them with Scorpion, Life Model Decoys of Human Fly, and replicas of the Spider-Slayers. Piloting a giant robot version of Big Man, he attacked Spider-Man and Jameson, assuming Jameson would help kill Spider-Man. Spider-Man and the remorseful Jameson quickly defeated Foswell Jr. as Spider-Man hurls the Big Man robot outside before it can self-destruct. Foswell Jr. is then arrested by the police.[4]Henry Pym Jr. is the son of Hank Pym and Janet van Dyne in the MC2 universe. He inherits his father's size changing powers and takes the Big Man name. He is briefly a member of the Revengers before going straight and joining a government-sponsored team.[5]The Ultimate Marvel equivalent is named Mr. Big, a mobster and the Enforcers' leader.[6] Mr. Big was scheming to overthrow Wilson Fisk, using Spider-Man as a secret weapon. The plan backfired, and when Fisk learned that he was the one responsible for Spidey's assault on Fisk's office, Fisk crushed the mobster's head bare-handed.[7]This article about a Marvel Comics character is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.