Thunderstrike is the name of two characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics while also using an Asgardian weapon of the same name. The first version, Eric Masterson, was introduced as Thor as a supporting character in the Thor title but continued in several other comic books like the self-titled series Thunderstrike in 1993. The second version, Kevin Masterson, was first introduced as a supporting character in Thor and appeared again in the spin-off series Thunderstrike (as the son of the first version). Both versions would later appear in both the Marvel Comics 2 and Heroic Age Marvel Comics storylines.Eric Masterson first appeared in Thor #391, as a supporting character.[1] Thor #408 featured the merging of the character Eric Masterson with Thor, Masterson being utilized as the God of Thunder's alter ego until issue #432.[2] Thor #432 featured the character assuming the role of Thor, and appearing as the title character until Thor #459.[3]Following Thor #459, Masterson was introduced as "Thunderstrike" in the eponymous series starting in June 1993.[4] The series lasted approximately two years. Thunderstrike ran for 24 issues, the series canceled in September 1995. Creator Tom DeFalco has often claimed that the book outsold Thor and The Avengers combined at the time of its cancellation;[5] although this has been shown to be extremely unlikely.[6] Masterson also appeared in the mini-series Thor Corps as Thunderstrike, and appeared as a guest star in the Thor series.The character was featured in the Avengers from issue #343 until issue #374,[7] and crossover series Operation: Galactic Storm. Masterson also appeared in the mini-series Infinity Gauntlet and Infinity War. Outside the many appearances in Thor and Avengers, Thunderstrike was used to launch an ongoing series Blackwulf, and a limited series Code: B.L.U.E.It was announced that the Thunderstrike character would be returning in a new miniseries by co-creators Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz in November 2010.[8] Promotionals leading into the event began in August depicting the mace stating "One will rise..." and "The World Still Needs Heroes."[9] Ultimately, the new Thunderstrike miniseries featured Eric Masterson's son, Kevin, in the role once inhabited by his father.Kevin Masterson was created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, first appearing in Thor vol. 1 #392 in June 1988 as the son of the original hero known as Thunderstrike, Eric Masterson. He would continue to appear in a supporting role in Thor and spin-off series Thunderstrike.The character would be re-imagined in What If vol. 2 #105, appearing for the first time as a new version of Thunderstrike. An origin for Kevin Masterson as Thunderstrike would appear in the follow-up MC2 series A-Next #1, where he would continue to be featured, as part of the ensemble cast of characters. He would also appear in the MC2 series Last Hero Standing and sequel Last Planet Standing; as well as, the follow-up series Avengers Next.The use of Kevin Masterson as a legacy version of Thunderstrike was a theme revisited during the Heroic Age. It was announced that the character would return in a new five-issue miniseries by co-creators Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz in November 2010.[10] Promotionals leading into the event began in August depicting the mace stating "One will rise..." and "The World Still Needs Heroes."[11]  The first issues received generally positive reviews, lauding the premise, characterization and plotting.[12] By series end the book was praised for plotting, dialogue, and characterization, with the contemporization of a classic character into timeless.[13]Thunderstrike appeared in Fear Itself: The Home Front.He is currently a member of the Asgardians of the Galaxy.Eric Kevin Masterson was working as an architect when he met Thor. Masterson was injured by falling girders, and was taken to the hospital by Thor. Now on crutches, Masterson was attacked by Quicksand, but saved by Thor.[14] Masterson was then abducted by Mongoose. Masterson accompanied Thor to the Black Galaxy, where he first met Hercules. Masterson, mortally wounded by Mongoose, was given Thor's form and powers after the original was sealed in Eric's mind, by Odin, to save Eric's life.[15] Recognizing that his new life as Thor was too dangerous for a child, Masterson gave up custody of his son Kevin to his ex-wife Marcy, reasoning that Kevin would be safer with her, even if she was relatively ambivalent about her role as a mother.[16] Masterson was then separated from Thor by the Red Celestial.[17] Shortly thereafter, Masterson saved Thor's life, and was merged with him again.[18] Masterson's son Kevin was captured by Ulik for Loki. Thor freed Kevin and seemingly slew Loki in battle. Heimdall separated Thor from Masterson, then banished Thor, and transformed Masterson into a new Thor.[19] He then met the Enchantress as Leena Moran, and battled Ulik.[20]Eric continued in the role of Thor, after having been given Mjolnir by Thor, who then told Eric to carry on as Earth's protector. Eric then returned to Earth and joined the Avengers in Thor's place.[20] Masterson revealed his double identity to Captain America. He then first visited Asgard, where he fought the Warriors Three, Balder, Heimdall, and Sif, while trying to discover the whereabouts of the real Thor. Masterson then helped rescue the sleeping Odin from Annihilus.[21] He teamed with Beta Ray Bill and Dargo Ktor as the "Thor Corps" against Zarrko and Loki.[22] During his time with the Avengers as Thor, Masterson aided them in such battles as the Kree/Shi'ar war[23] and the Infinity Gauntlet crisis, being one of only three heroes at the conclusion of that battle to remember the entire confrontation (the other two being Doctor Strange and the Silver Surfer) as he had briefly witnessed Warlock's soul during the fight.[24]Eric's role as Thor was relatively brief, as the Enchantress manipulated Eric into attacking Thor for Sif's affection. During a confrontation with Thor, Eric struck Sif. This provoked Thor, leading him to defeat Eric and reclaim Mjolnir while Odin revealed the Enchantress's manipulations.[25] Odin then ordered the creation of a new mace for Eric, called Thunderstrike.[26]Eric first used the Thunderstrike mace against the villains Bloodaxe and Carjack, but he was promptly defeated. Afterwards, Eric created his own costume to distinguish himself from Thor, while keeping Thor's reputation intact. Eric renamed himself Thunderstrike, after the mace itself, operating as an adventurer and crimefighter.[27] Eventually Eric defeated Bloodaxe, only to discover that Bloodaxe was actually Jackie Lukus, his current love interest.[28]After a confrontation with Seth the Egyptian god of death, Eric realized that the only way to defeat him was to succumb to the curse contained with the Bloodaxe and increase his strength.[29] After his supposed slaying of Seth, Eric was confronted by the Avengers, who attempted to arrest him for murder. Instead, Masterson defeated the Avengers, and Thor confronted him. Eric pleaded with Thor to kill him to prevent the curse of the Bloodaxe from taking him over completely. But Eric was eventually forced to fight the Bloodaxe subconsciously, which manifested in Eric's mind in the form of Skurge. Eric eventually defeated the Skurge duplicate, causing a psychic backlash that killed him and destroyed the two weapons. Claiming that Valhalla was not where he belonged, Eric was sent into the afterlife by Odin.[30]Eric was temporarily resurrected by the Grim Reaper several years later, along with several other deceased Avengers. After overcoming the Grim Reaper's control, he and the other undead Avengers were returned to the afterlife by the Scarlet Witch. Before he returned to the afterlife, Eric asked Thor to check in on his son Kevin for him.[31]Kevin Masterson is granted the mace of his deceased father by Edwin Jarvis, the Avengers' butler, per his father's will. The mace is stolen from Kevin and even comes into the possession of Loki, who had created a spell to tap the dormant power within the mace. Kevin leaps into the midst of the spell, absorbing the mace and the magic it contains. He becomes his own version of Thunderstrike and a founding member of a new version of the Avengers.As the series continues, Thunderstrike's biggest challenge comes when the Avengers travel to a dark parallel dimension, where he encounters a dark version of his father. The alternate Eric Masterson recognized Thunderstrike as Kevin, who learns that in this reality, he, not Eric, has died. The alternate Eric and Kevin bonded, and once the Avengers defeat the dark dimension's ruler, Kevin stays behind to be with his "father".Kevin returns to his home reality, and rejoins the Avengers to aid in the battle with Seth.[32] When Galactus destroys Asgard, Thunderstrike seemingly loses his powers in Last Planet Standing. He is kidnapped by Ulik and Sylene, daughter of Loki, as part of a plan to restore Asgard;[33] but Kevin Masterson struggles against his captors. Ultimately he is responsible for turning the tables on the villains. Thena, daughter of Thor, who had also taken part in the battle against her cousin, is able to restore Kevin's power, allowing him to become Thunderstrike once again.[34]An embittered adolescent Kevin Masterson is featured in the Thunderstrike limited series. The character previously featured as an idealistic child is shown to have anger, behavioral problems, and disillusioned outlook on "spandex-covered glory hounds."He is given his father's enchanted mace by Captain Steve Rogers; which to their mutual disappointment triggers no change in the character (although he does receive an open invitation to the Avengers Academy in which he is later seen arriving on their New Campus in California[35]).While on his way home, Kevin tries to save a mother and child from a rampaging Rhino and is transformed into a superhero. Kevin briefly battles the Rhino, and shortly after Kevin is defeated, he realizes that he is in his father's body. Mangog, a foe of Thor, resurfaces and threatens New York City. The young hero teams with Thor, to battle the monster. Kevin accepts his new identity as Thunderstrike, along with a new image, and continues his adventures under the mentorship of Gruenhilda the Valkyrie.During the Fear Itself storyline, Thunderstrike ends up teleported onto a station in the middle of the Pacific Ocean with Amadeus Cho, X-23, Spider-Girl, and Power Man. They end up fighting a bunch of samurai Shark Men.[36]Kevin briefly appeared as part of the new class of students when the Avengers Academy moves to the former headquarters of the West Coast Avengers.[37]Thunderstrike is a magical mace made of nearly indestructible uru metal. It was crafted by the Asgardian dwarves Brokk and Eitri and given the following enchantments by Odin. Stamping the mace reverts Thunderstrike back to Eric's mortal human form, dressed in whichever clothes he last wore in that form, with any physical damage fully healed with the exception of certain mystical spells such as Seth's Mark of Death, while the mace Thunderstrike transforms into a wooden cane. By stamping his walking stick on the ground, Eric Masterson transformed back into his superhuman form, bearded and dressed in the garb of Thunderstrike, while the cane again becomes the mace.[38]The mace itself can be thrown over great distances and return to the point it is thrown from. By throwing the mace and gripping the strap, Thunderstrike can fly (although the comic emphasizes that this is much rockier and less steady than Thor's flight). He can use the mace to fire powerful concussive blasts of mystical energy. The mace magically enables him to survive the adverse conditions of outer space, including its lack of oxygen. The mace can also be used for tracking various energy sources and can create mystic vortexes to travel from one place to another.Eric's abilities are derived from the enchanted mace Thunderstrike, made of mystic uru metal, which is nearly indestructible, crafted by the Asgardian dwarves Brokk and Eitri, and given the following enchantments by Odin:As Thunderstrike, Masterson's appearance is identical to that of Thor, hence his superhuman form possesses Asgardian physiology. While his superhuman abilities were significantly above those of most Asgardians, his strength, stamina and durability were only a fraction of Thor's. He is a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, and has received some combat training from Captain America and Hercules.As Masterson, he is a highly skilled architect, with a master's degree in architecture. He is near-sighted, and wears eye-glasses.Kevin has the ability to change from his normal form into the superhuman Thunderstrike. As Thunderstrike, he has the powers contained within the mace of the same name. Thunderstrike is superhumanly strong and durable. He can generate explosive bursts of sonic force (his "thunderbolts") from his hands, and direct them as blasts of force, or focus the energy into his fists to deliver super-strong punches. Thunderstrike can direct his blasts downwards to launch himself into the air and, while he cannot fly, can propel himself to great distances. He even learned how to modulate the frequency of his sonic energies to shatter objects just by touching them, without harming nearby people.Kevin's demonstrated powers in the Thunderstrike limited series are the same as his father's, including the reversion to his normal state if he is separated from Thunderstrike for over sixty seconds. He did not use the ability to fire energy blasts from the mace in the limited series. Thanks to tutoring by the valkyrie Brunnehilde, he is also capable of changing his appearance as Thunderstrike, finally choosing a form which is a modified version of his normal self.In the comic series, Thunderstrike has fought an array of enemies:Variations of Thunderstrike appear in Avengers Assemble.