Blake Tower is a fictional supporting character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. An attorney who often appears in stories featuring Spider-Man and Daredevil, he first appeared in Daredevil #124 and was created by writer Marv Wolfman and artist Bob Brown.Blake Tower was a main character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) Netflix television series Daredevil where he was portrayed by Stephen Rider. He also appeared in guest appearances in two seasons of the series Luke Cage, and is credited as main for his appearance in the second season.Blake Tower first appeared in Daredevil #124 and was created by writer Marv Wolfman and artist Bob Brown.Born in New York, Blake Tower became a brilliant lawyer and opened his own law firm. After watching the clash between Daredevil and the new Torpedo, Tower competed with Foggy Nelson for election as district attorney, and his campaign won in a landslide. Among his first tasks was the official presentation of the computer W.H.O. (Worldwide Habitual Offender) Dr. Armstrong Smith.After a brief meeting with the Heroes for Hire, Luke Cage and Iron Fist, Tower dealt with the acquittal of Spider-Man against charges for the death of George Stacy and Norman Osborn. He also tried to help Spider-Man against the attacks of J. Jonah Jameson, Spencer Smythe and the Spider-Slayer.[volume & issue needed]Subsequently Tower collected the deposition of Captain America regarding a case involving Batroc the Leaper. This made him several enemies in criminal circles and he became the target of a hit man, only being saved by the intervention of Luke Cage and Iron Fist. Tower participated in trials against Boomerang and Punisher, afterwards convincing the supervillain Slyde to work with and engage his former employer for money laundering. After the murder of colleague Jean DeWolff, Tower assisted in the process of the only suspect, the Sin-Eater and the dissolution of Heroes for Hire, meanwhile following procedures to bring the body of Ned Leeds to the United States.[volume & issue needed]Tower had a long association with She-Hulk which ended because of the heroine's hectic life.Tower later participated in the trial of Peter Parker during the "Clone Saga",[1] and in the trial of Winter Soldier for his previous actions.[2]Blake Tower is a recurring character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe's Netflix TV series, portrayed by Stephen Rider.