Brother Blood is the name of two supervillains appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The first iteration, Sebastian Blood VIII, is a power hungry priest and the head of the Church of Blood, as well as the eighth person in the DC Universe to assume the mantle, after killing his father and taking the Brother Blood mantle from him. This tradition had gone on for generations, dating back to the 13th century, when the first Brother Blood was born after obtaining Christ's prayer shawl and gaining superhuman abilities. As Brother Blood, Sebastian served as a recurring adversary of the Teen Titans and the archenemy of Cyborg, until being killed by his successor, Sebastian Blood IX.A different iteration of Brother Blood appeared in the 2003 Teen Titans animated series, and its 2013 spin-off, Teen Titans Go!, voiced by John DiMaggio. Sebastian Blood was also a recurring character on the second season of The CW Arrowverse show Arrow, played by Kevin Alejandro. Joseph Morgan appears as the character in the fourth season of the HBO Max series Titans.The first Brother Blood, Sebastian Blood VIII, debuted in The New Teen Titans #21 (July 1982), created by writer Marv Wolfman and artist George Pérez.[1] He was a regular foe of the Teen Titans for many years.[2]The second Brother Blood, Sebastian Blood IX, debuted in Outsiders vol. 3 #6 (January 2004), created by writer Judd Winick and artist ChrisCross.The first Brother Blood encountered by the Titans was the eighth to bear the title. Seven hundred years earlier, a priest in the fictional nation of Zandia named Brother Sebastian killed another priest to gain possession of what he believed to be Christ's prayer shawl. The shawl gave him invulnerability and reduced his aging, but the priest he killed cursed him to be slain by his son before his hundredth birthday. Upon doing so, his son became the second Brother Blood. He, in turn was killed by his son, and this continued for seven centuries.[1]The eighth Brother Blood is, seemingly, the first who wishes to extend the Church of Blood beyond Zandia. He wants the Church to be a world power.[3] The Church of Blood began operating in America, and the Titans were called to investigate when an ex-girlfriend of Cyborg attempted to escape this cult. Because of the Church of Blood's influence, the Titans found moving against him difficult, especially when public opinion was turned against them by Bethany Snow, a reporter who was also a member of the Church.Brother Blood brainwashed Nightwing and attempted to take control of Raven's power. She defeated him, and his mind was seemingly destroyed.[4] Brother Blood's wife, Mother Mayhem, later birthed a girl, suggesting the curse was over.Some time later, in Outsiders vol. 3, Brother Blood returned to villainy.[5] Shortly after recreating his cult, he was killed by a young boy, Sebastian, claiming to be the new Brother Blood.[6] This version reappeared in Teen Titans vol. 3.This teenaged Brother Blood seemingly based all his decisions on advice from Mother Mayhem, but this was actually a female cultist chosen at random and killed if the advice was not what he wanted to hear. He also exhibited vampiric abilities.He revealed that the Cult of Blood was based on the worship of Trigon the Terrible. It was for this reason that the new Bride of Blood was to be Raven. The Titans were able to save Raven, but the Church of Blood continued. Brother Blood later appeared in Teen Titans vol. 3 #30, a member of Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains, where he claimed an undead Lilith Clay to be his mother. He also summoned the first Hawk and Dove, Phantasm, Kole, and Aquagirl from the dead to be his own Teen Titans. Brother Blood was stopped by Kid Eternity and sent to the eighth level of Hell, but not before Kid Eternity summoned the past Brother Bloods, all of whom took out their anger and hatred on Sebastian.In the aftermath of the "Reign In Hell" miniseries, Blood, now an adult, escaped from his incarceration and was opposed by Kid Eternity. The fight between the two brought them to Titans Tower, where Blood fought the Titans. After draining Red Devil's powers, Blood realized that he had tainted himself with Neron's influence and fled the battle. He was later seen approaching an unknown woman, looking to make her his new mother.[7]Sometime later, the Secret Six was hired to infiltrate one of Blood's cults and rescue a wealthy teenager who had been forced into the group against his will. After the team's cover was blown, they proceeded to kill a number of the church's members and ultimately destroyed their compound.[8]In September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, The Cult of Blood (once again as Trigon's pawns) makes their debut in issue one of the Phantom Stranger.[9] Brother Blood himself appears in Ravagers.[10] Blood kidnaps the team intending to use Beast Boy's powers in a ritual to travel in the Red's dimension.[11] The Ravagers manage to interrupt the ritual as Terra buries him alive.[12] He survives and returns in Animal Man, where it is revealed his obsession with the Red came from being their first option for champion before Buddy Baker was chosen.[13]A "Mother Blood" appears in the DC Rebirth series of Titans.[14] This woman named Sonya Tarinka [15] has a deep connection to The Red, as well as the previous leader. She is shown to have the power of mind control as she controlled Beast Boy.[16]The first Blood is a formidable opponent who is backed by a massive number of fanatical followers. He is an expert manipulator who feeds off of the faith of his members. He ages at a much slower rate than normal humans. Brother Blood is immune to Raven's soul-self due to his shawl's powers. He is also nigh invulnerable and has supernatural physical strength.The second Blood's powers work in a manner similar to those of a vampire: he gains strength from blood, and can take on the abilities of anyone whose blood he has sampled. Like the first Blood, he is backed by a massive number of fanatical followers.Brother Blood is featured in the Smallville Season 11 digital comic based on the TV series. In the story-arc "Harbinger", Blood and his cult plan to sacrifice teenager Rachel Roth but thwarted by John Constantine and Zatanna. [17]In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Brother Blood is mentioned by his former student, Jason Todd, as being a developing drug lord.[18]