Coal Tiger (Prince T'Chaka II) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in The Avengers #355. He also appeared in the MC2 series A-Next. He is the son of T'Challa, King of Wakanda and the superhero known as Black Panther.T'Chaka II is the son of Black Panther and is named after his grandfather T'Chaka. When a racist team of villains called Soldiers of the Serpent attacked T'Challa's friend N'Kano (who was on a diplomatic mission for Wakanda in New York), A-Next tried to save him. As the Serpents battled with the heroes of A-Next, T'Challa's son T'Chaka II charged into battle. While Mainframe tried to convince the youth to leave the battle, T'Chaka II shapeshifted into a feral black werecat called the "Coal Tiger". Coal Tiger's bestial abilities were able to turn the tide in A-Next's favor. He was offered membership with the team after the battle was won, but he declined stating that he would be available to help if they needed him.[1]When all of the members of A-Next were captured by an evil version of A-Next called the Revengers, Coal Tiger was one of the many heroes who came to free the captured superheroes. When A-Next was freed and the Revengers were defeated, Coal Tiger finally agreed to join the team.[1]When Magneto apparently resurfaced, Coal Tiger joined the reserve members in fighting him where it was discovered that this Magneto is Charlie Philips using a magnetic harness.[2]Coal Tiger can change into a humanoid cat creature with black fur. In his feline form, he has superhuman strength and agility, as well as enhanced senses and retractable razor-sharp claws on his fingers and toes.Coal Tiger is also the name of an alternate universe version of T'Challa himself, who appeared in Avengers vol 1 #355 as a member of the Gatherers, a group of former Avengers from different universes.[3][4]A Coal Tiger is mentioned in Captain America vol 1 #389 as an opponent of the Zambian villainess Impala.[5]In Black Panther vol 3 #60, the Coal Tigers are mentioned as being a rank in the Panther Cult.[6][4]The name "Coal Tiger" was one of several names that Jack Kirby was bandying back and forth as a possible name for the character who in mainstream continuity in the Marvel Universe became Black Panther.[7][4]While the character has never appeared in Ultimate Avengers 2, the powers of the Coal Tiger seemed to be part of the Panther line. Both King T'Chaka and T'Challa transform into werecat creatures during their fights with Herr Kleiser.