This is a list of Thor's rogues gallery.The Fenris Wolf is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, based on the wolf Fenrir from Norse mythology.The Fenris Wolf first appeared in Marvel Comics in Journey into Mystery #114 (March 1965), and was adapted from Norse legends by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.[5]The character subsequently appeared in Thor #276-278 (Oct.–Dec. 1978) and Thor (vol. 2) #80-83 (Aug.–Oct. 2004) and 85 (Dec. 2004).The Fenris Wolf received an entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #4.The Fenris Wolf is a creature of Asgardian origin, said to be the offspring of Loki and the giantess Angrboda.However, many years ago, he was part of the basis of the story Little Red Riding Hood. The goddess Iduna walks the forests of Asgard carrying a bundle of golden apples. These "Golden Apples of Immortality" are for All-Father Odin, and Iduna takes them to him every year. Along her journey, she meets Haakun the Hunter. Haakun greets her warmly and tells her to go in peace.[volume & issue needed]As Iduna continues further down the path, the Fenris Wolf sees her and transforms himself. Iduna next comes upon "a frail stranger". The stranger offers Iduna protection along her journey, but she declines the offer. The stranger takes a strong interest in Iduna's basket and begins asking her questions. She quickly grows suspicious, saying his hands seem so grasping and brutal, and his voice sounds like that of a beast. She finds his manner sinister and frightening, and says his eyes burn with hatred and pure savagery. She then discovers that the stranger is actually the Fenris Wolf in disguise. The Fenris Wolf shapeshifts into his true form and attacks her. Haakun the Hunter arrives and drives the Fenris Wolf away with his enchanted battle axe, causing the Fenris Wolf to shrink in an attempt to escape. The axe pursues the Fenris Wolf and finally strikes him, spiriting him off to the shadowy land of Varinheim.[volume & issue needed]Just like Norse mythology, Odin had the Dwarfs forge the chain Gleipnir ("deceiver" or "entangler"). It appeared to be only a silken ribbon, but was made of six wondrous ingredients: the sound of a cat's footfall, the beard of a woman, the roots of a mountain, bear's sinews, fish's breath, and bird's spittle (which explains why these things are not found today). When it came to binding the Fenris Wolf, Tyr lost his hand in the process, as the Fenris Wolf would only allow the chain to be put on him if one of the gods put their hand in his mouth.[volume & issue needed]It is prophesied that when Ragnarok occurs, the Fenris Wolf will devour Odin.[volume & issue needed]Hela at one time unchained the Fenris Wolf to bring about Ragnarok, only to be thwarted by Thor.[6]A giant offspring of the Fenris Wolf, named Hoarfen, once battled the Hulk and his Pantheon allies. The battle goes poorly for Hoarfen, causing him many injuries.[7]Loki later unchained the Fenris Wolf to aid him, Ulik, and Hyrm in attacking Asgard, using weapons that were forged for them by Surtur. Ulik and the Fenris Wolf attacked Thor together, only for Thor to attack them using Mjolnir, which resulted in the blast removing Sif's arm. Hyrm joined up with Ulik and the Fenris Wolf and managed to shatter Mjolnir.[8]The Fenris Wolf then attacked Thor, Captain America, and Iron Man when they were in Asgard. When the Fenris Wolf was about to attack Thor, Captain America kicked the Fenris Wolf in the stomach to reclaim his shield, then Thor defeated him, causing him to flee.[9]When Kurse was protecting innocent children, the Fenris Wolf fought Kurse and killed him by sending a hammer into his skull.[volume & issue needed]The Fenris Wolf assisted in the attack on Vanaheim and faced Thor again in battle. Thor bound the Fenris Wolf in chains and used his body to knock down Durok in order to save Sif. With Durok slain, the Fenris Wolf snapped his chains and fought Thor, only to be struck down by Beta Ray Bill. Beta Ray Bill used the power of his hammer Stormbreaker upon the Fenris Wolf, reducing him to a skeleton as the monster's punishment for attacking a weakened Thor. Those that were fighting with the Fenris Wolf fled.[volume & issue needed]The Fenris Wolf returned to life and swallowed Asgard's sun and moon assisting to bring about Ragnarok, as Asgard perishes.[10]The Fenris Wolf is the ancestor of the Asgardian Hrimhari.[11]Asgard reforms and re-establishes itself over the state of Oklahoma.[volume & issue needed] The Fenris Wolf escapes from his prison, a place deep in the dimensional 'Hells' and steals a technological device that would slaughter innocents, humans and gods alike. The Warriors Three, with the aid of a superpowered A.I.M. scientist, defeat him in honorable battle. He is now kept prisoner in an Asgardian courtyard, where he may be better supervised.[12]