Firelord (Pyreus Kril) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.Firelord first appears in Thor #225 (July 1974) and was created by writer Gerry Conway and penciler John Buscema.Pyreus Kril is a Xandarian who was born on the planet Xandar, in the Andromeda Galaxy. He is a graduate of the Nova Corps Academy, the military and exploratory force of the planet Xandar. During his commission, he served aboard a Xandarian ship under the command of Gabriel Lan. Gabriel and Pyreus became friends, until Gabriel was abducted by the cosmic entity Galactus and transformed into the herald the Air-Walker. Pyreus assumes command as captain and begins an obsessive search for Gabriel. Pyreus eventually locates Galactus' vessel and confronts the entity, only to discover that Gabriel was killed in combat. Galactus tells this to Pyreus only after the Xandarian agrees to serve him as his latest herald.[1]Pyreus is then transformed into Firelord, and after a period of servitude asked for his freedom. Galactus agrees on the condition that Firelord first find a replacement. Firelord travels to Earth and after an encounter with the Thunder God Thor and Hercules is freed when Thor presents Galactus with the armor of the Asgardian Destroyer to animate and use as a herald.[2] After aiding Thor on several occasions,[3] Firelord returns to deep space. He returns months later with the Shi'ar agent Erik the Red, who tricks Firelord into battling the X-Men.[4]Several years later Firelord discovers that Thor has battled a robot replica of the Air-Walker,[5] and after revealing the origin of the two heralds to Thor returns to space with the remains of the android.[6] Firelord later encounters Spider-Man in a fight - albeit one provoked by humans who drove Firelord into a temper because they believed that he was a mutant - but he was defeated by the wall-crawler due to Spider-Man's hit-and-run approach serving as an effective counter to Firelord's brute raw power.[7][8] Firelord also meets the superhero team the Avengers, and assists them against the space-pirate Nebula.[9] Firelord has since aided his fellow herald Silver Surfer on a number of occasions,[10] particularly against the threat of Morg, Galactus' most brutal herald.[11] Firelord assisted Thor in his battle against Thanos and his thrall Mangog.[12] Firelord and Air-Walker also helped Nova and the New Warriors fight the Xandarian villain Supernova.[13]Firelord battles the Annihilation Wave alongside his fellow heralds, including Red Shift and Stardust. Although wounded at one point, Firelord recovers and now seeks vengeance against the remnants of the forces of Annihilus as they destroyed his home-world of Xandar.[14]Pyreus Kril was a normal Xandarian man until transformed by Galactus. Given mastery over the cosmic flame, Firelord wields a flaming staff and is capable of energy projection via his eyes and staff. Like all heralds, the Power Cosmic provides Firelord with superhuman strength, reflexes and durability, flight, mastery of the electromagnetic spectrum and total immunity to the rigors of space. Firelord is also capable of travelling faster than the speed of light.Pyreus Kril graduated from the Xandarian Nova Corps Academy, and in addition to a thorough knowledge of combat has knowledge of advanced alien technology and space navigation.In the 31st century of Earth-691, Firelord is an ally of the Guardians of the Galaxy. He is known as "Protector of the Universe", but does not wear the Quantum Bands traditionally assigned to the holder of the role.[15] He soon joins the sub-group, the Galactic Guardians.[16]Firelord serves Galactus alongside his fellow heralds, with the entire group being worshiped by the Inhumans.[17]Firelord appears as one of the "cosmic zombies' who return to Earth 40 years after the original infection. He has assisted the original space-faring group in eating nearly every sentient being in the galaxy. His jaw is literally broken so he can not speak. The returning zombies eventually regain control over their minds and cravings. The sole exception is the Hulk, who tries to eat the last of the human race. Firelord is destroyed while trying to stop him with his own staff smashing his head off.[18]