Hala the Accuser is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appeared in Guardians of Knowhere #3 and was created by Brian Michael Bendis and Valerio Schiti. She is a member of the Kree Accuser Corps.Hala the Accuser first appeared in Guardians of Knowhere #3 and was created by Brian Michael Bendis and Valerio Schiti.[1]Hala the Accuser is a member of the Kree Empire's Accuser Corps. She was the last of its members when Hala was destroyed during the fall of the Kree Empire as seen in The Black Vortex storyline.[2]During the Secret Wars storyline, Hala the Accuser ended up on Knowhere where it orbited Battleworld following the final incursion that followed the incursions seen in the Time Runs Out storyline. She first appeared when the Guardians of Knowhere defeated Yotat the Destroyer.[3] As Hala the Accuser spoke only Kree language, Gamora and the Angela who worked for the Thor Corps had a hard time dealing with her when she attacked them. Hala the Accuser even defeated and slew many of the Nova Corps who were residing on Knowhere. Hala then killed the Thor Corps Angela before being defeated by Gamora with the help of Drax the Destroyer and Rocket Raccoon.[4]As part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel following Mister Fantastic rebuilding the Multiverse, Hala the Accuser went after Gamora and found her on Spartax.[5] The Guardians of the Galaxy fought against Hala the Accuser. Even though Thing knocked Hala the Accuser unconscious, Drax the Destroyer unknowingly activated a failsafe in Hala the Accuser's Universal Weapon enabling her to regain conscious and gain the upper hand against the Guardians of the Galaxy. She then placed Emperor Peter Quill in an escape pod so that he could watch Hala the Accuser destroy Spartax as she also planned to do the same thing to Earth as part of her revenge for his part in the near-genocide of the Kree.[6] As Hala the Accuser continued wreaking havoc on Spartax, she defeated the Spartax Royal Guards before she realized that the Guardians of the Galaxy had retreated and regrouped. As Gamora sacrificed herself to confront Hala the Accuser, she bought the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy time for them to get away and rescue Peter Quill.[7] Upon realizing that Peter Quill was no longer in her grasp, Hala the Accuser continued beating up Gamora in order to get the information on what she did with him. In the nick of time, the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy arrived in an attempt to talk Hala the Accuser out of destroying Spartax. When Hala didn't give in to their plea, Kitty Pryde phased Hala the Accuser through the ground, Thing jumped from a high distance enough to knock out Hala the Accuser, and Venom broke her staff.[8] During the attack by Yotat the Destroyer, Hala the Accuser was shown crawling through the sewers and was arrested by the Spartax Royal Guard when they found her. The Spartax Council decided to deport Hala the Accuser back to what remained of the Kree Empire.[9]As a Kree warrior in peak physical condition, Hala the Accuser possesses her species' unique physiology, having far greater natural attributes than a human. Thus, Hala's body is resistant to poisons, toxins and diseases.