The following is a list of known fictional characters who are Inhumans, a race of superhumans appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.The Inhuman Royal Family are the ruling class of the Inhumans. Among the members of the Inhuman Royal Family are:The Inhuman Royal Guards are a group of Inhumans that are responsible for protecting the Inhuman Royal Family. Among its members are:The Genetic Council is a group of Inhumans who are charged with making decisions concerning the use of the Terrigen Mists and the fate of the Inhumans. Among the known members are:The following Inhumans are allies of Maximus the Mad:The Crimson Cadre are the Inhumans' personal strike force led by General Ator. Among its members are:The Dark Riders are a group of Mutants and Inhumans drafted by Apocalypse. Among its Inhuman members are:The Inhumans and the Kree have experimented on some Centaurians, Dire Wraiths, Kymellians, and Badoon so that when Black Bolt is found, he can lead them into a new era. Besides the Inhuman Royal Family, among the members of the Universal Inhumans are:A special team of Universal Inhumans who rescued Human Torch from Annihilus. Among the members of the Light Brigade are:Unless stated otherwise, it can be assumed that the listed Inhumans are residing in Attilan. Among the Inhumans listed here are:In the wake of Infinity, it is revealed that tribes of Inhumans have existed in secret around Earth and that they had mated with humans, many eventually finding their way into modern society, without knowing their past, producing Inhuman/human hybrids.[91] Inhumanity deals with the aftermath of this revelation.In the wake of Death of the Inhumans, it is revealed that the Kree had created a new race of Inhumans which was dubbed as Super-Inhumans. This new race was engineered from birth to possess almost all of their Inhuman abilities and none of their humanity, something the Kree thought to be problematic.Vox – The first and currently the only member of this race, he is described as the "voice and the wrath of the gods and the full-throated scream of the Kree Empire". Besides his great powers, he also wields a scythe consisting of a handle and blade made of an unknown kind of red energy and a small sharp dagger. His costume also possess a similar resemblance to that of Ahura Boltagon from the "Earth X" reality. Vox is later revealed to be actually a program designed by the Kree which is forcefully imprinted on some selected Inhumans. When the program was activated those who were selected would lose all of their identities and free will and are genetically transformed into Vox, obedient deadly hunters. Black Bolt ended up wiping out the entire Vox army, but not without some Kree escaping the slaughter. The program was apparently used in the Supreme Intelligence as Vox reappeared now wearing an emerald costume instead of the black one with crimson highlights, and calling himself as Vox Supreme. He fights Carol Danvers and forces her to kill the Avengers.In an alternate future of the Marvel Universe inhabited by the Guardians of the Galaxy, some new Inhumans are present. Among these Inhumans are:The Marvel Television series Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. has introduced Inhumans most of which were created specifically for the show.The Inhuman Royal Family and other notable Inhumans from the comics appeared in the Marvel Television series Marvel's Inhumans. They consist of:The Marvel Studios film Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness reintroduces characters from the Marvel Television series Marvel's Inhumans. They consist of: