Magpie (Margaret Pye) is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. She was created by John Byrne, and first appeared in The Man of Steel #3 (November 1986).[1]The character has been portrayed in live-action by Sarah Schenkkan in the final season of Gotham, and by Rachel Matthews in the first season of the Arrowverse series Batwoman.Magpie is a jewel thief who specifically targets jewels named after birds and then replaces them with booby-trapped replicas.[2] Taking a job as a museum curator, Pye is slowly driven mad surrounded by the beautiful things that she so loves but can never own. She was notable in Post-Crisis continuity as the first villain who was defeated by Superman and Batman working together, Superman having visited Gotham to "apprehend" Batman before Batman's demonstration of his skills while tracking Magpie convinced Superman that Gotham needed someone like Batman to protect it.[3]Some time after during the events of Legends, Pye is released on an insanity plea and goes on another rampage, before eventually being stopped by Batman and Jason Todd.[4]Magpie disappears for a length of time, until it is revealed that she is Poison Ivy's cellmate at Arkham Asylum.[5]Shortly thereafter, she is murdered by the Tally Man II, along with Orca, the Ventriloquist and Scarface and the KGBeast, villains working for the Penguin. Ultimately, her death was part of a revenge scheme by the criminal known as the Great White Shark.[6]During the "Blackest Night" storyline, Magpie is among the many deceased villains that receive a black power ring and become reanimated into a Black Lantern. She is seen slaughtering people in a grocery store and working closely with the reanimated Trigger Twins and King Snake.[7]In 2011, DC Comics rebooted the DC Universe through "The New 52". During the "Forever Evil" storyline, Magpie appears as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains which Outsider set up on behalf of the Crime Syndicate of America.[8]In 2016, DC Comics implemented another relaunch of its books called "DC Rebirth", which restored its continuity to a form much as it was prior to "The New 52". Magpie is one of the villains taken down by Batman and Catwoman after he takes her along with him on an average night of his job and fought Batgirl in her quest for justice.[9] She has also had a run-in with the Flash and Iris West after they were undercover as supervillains in the nation of Zandia, which serves as a haven for criminals like her.[10]When at Belle Reve, Magpie joined the Suicide Squad. On her only mission, she and the Suicide Squad were sent to fight some Revolutionaries. Magpie infiltrated the submarine where the base of the Revolutionaries is located and was killed by Thylacine almost immediately.[11]Magpie is an expert at hand-to-hand combat. Later appearances showed her with the ability to extend her fingernails into a set of strong sharp claws.Magpie is an expert at creating gadgetry that resembles the items that she stole. She also makes use of weapons that are explosive, can emit airborne toxins, or shoot razor blades.A male character named Merg Gaterra uses the name Magpie in Pre-Zero Hour comics. He was an Angtuan enemy of the Legion of Super-Heroes and was hired by Monitor to steal items from the Legion's headquarters. [12]Magpie appears in the prequel comic to Injustice 2. Following the events of the first game, Magpie is shown as a member of this universe's Suicide Squad.[13] The Impostor Batman detonated the bomb in Magpie's head for being useless.[14]Magpie appears in the Batman: Li'l Gotham comics.