Geheneris Hala´son Mahr Vehl or Mahr Vehl, is a fictional character,  an alien superhero in the Ultimate Marvel universe.The character is the Ultimate version of Mar-Vell and was created by writer Warren Ellis and penciller Steve McNiven and first appears in Ultimate Secret #1 (March 2005).Mahr Vehl is a member of the Kree, an alien race. He is a "Pluskommander"—described by him as being equivalent to captain—in the Kree's interstellar fleet, the Kree Void Navy. Mahr Vehl is also a member of the Halason family, who according to Kree religion are God's chosen. Mahr Vehl denies this view and insists that his ancestor, Hala, was not a God—rather simply a man who believed that all that innocent life was worth saving. Initially a spy sent to Earth in an attempt to prevent humans from developing interstellar travel, Mahr Vehl abandons his mission and adopts the identity of physicist Dr. Philip Lawson. Under this guise, Mahr Vehl aids the human scientists in the development of an interstellar engineering program at a secret S.H.I.E.L.D. installation in New Mexico.[1]When the Kree attack the installation, Mahr Vehl is forced to reveal himself and battle the attackers. Although able to successfully defend the installation, Mahr Vehl is rendered unconscious and is eventually questioned by Nick Fury. Mahr Vehl explains he is a member of the Kree himself, and that they have been observing Earth to determine if humanity poses a threat to the Kree in the larger galaxy.[2] Observing mankind's violent nature, Mahr Vehl reveals that the Kree have decided to confine humanity on Earth until the entity Gah Lak Tus can destroy them, ending the potential threat.[3]Another Kree force attacks the installation soon after, but is stopped by a combined team of superheroes. Another team of heroes—with Mahr Vehl's aid—storm the Kree ship while the aliens are on Earth. The commander, Yahn Rgg, activates the self-destruct mechanism, but not before Mahr Vehl hacks into the ship's database and downloads its contents into his memory banks.[4] Mahr Vehl later aids the heroes against the "heralds" of Gah Lak Tus, the Silver Surfers.[5] Mahr Vehl is wounded in battle, but this diversionary action gives Ultimate Mr. Fantastic time to use the Ultimate Nullifier, which repels Gah Lak Tus. Mahr Vehl then chooses to remain on Earth, and is given the title of "Captain" by Fury.[6]Mahr Vehl was under the control of the Titan Thanos when he came into possession of the Cosmic Cube.[7]In the mini-series Hunger, Mahr-Vehl sacrificed himself to destroy a "merged" Galactus with a nuclear weapon.[8][9]Like all Kree, Mahr Vehl is ichthyoid in appearance, with dark purple skin, an extended, serpent-like neck, a head fin, and razor-sharp teeth. The Kree also have extended, four fingered hands, underarm webbing, and four toed, bird-like feet. Kree are also unable to speak terran languages without surgical modification to their throats. In human form, Mahr Vehl appears to be of average height with black hair and green eyes.Mahr Vehl's body has been implanted with a green and white cybernetic battle suit that can be activated by a device located on his wrist (which takes the appearance of a wristwatch when he is in human form). The battlesuit flares with bio-electric energy and provides Mahr Vehl with increased strength, increased healing, speed, flight, invisibility, phasing, the ability to view the entire light spectrum, the capability to create energy shields, and the power to project energy blasts via the totalkannon on his left forearm.[10][11][12] In later appearances Vehl's armor suit shows other special capabilities such as shape shifting and armor expansion, causing him to bulk up into a larger, stronger physical form along with greater energy projection fired from both arms instead of just the armor control dial.[13] As well as project massive gunnery capable of dealing damage to the Gah Lak Tus swarm drones.[14]