Mayhem (Brigid O'Reilly) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.The character made her live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe television series Cloak & Dagger, portrayed by Emma Lahana.The character of detective Brigid O'Reilly first appeared in Cloak and Dagger #1 (Oct. 1983), and was created by Bill Mantlo and Rick Leonardi.[1] She subsequently appeared in issues #2-4 (Nov. 1983-Jan. 1984) of the same series, and issues #1-5 (July 1985-March 1986) of the second Cloak and Dagger series.In Cloak and Dagger vol. 2 #5 (March 1986), Brigid underwent a drastic transformation and became known as Mayhem. The character subsequently appeared, as Mayhem, in Cloak and Dagger #6-9 (May–Nov. 1986), Strange Tales #13-15 (April–June 1988), #19 (Oct. 1988), The Mutant Misadventures of Cloak and Dagger #1-2 (Oct. Dec. 1988), #5-6 (June, Aug. 1989), #8 (Nov. 1989), #10-18 (Feb. 1990-June 1991), Web of Spider-Man Annual #9 (1993) and #10 (1994).Mayhem received an entry in The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #8. However, some of the color plates were reversed in that issue; those pages, including Mayhem, were re-printed correctly in issue #9.Brigid O'Reilly was originally a police detective in Manhattan when she learned that Cloak and Dagger were attacking criminals in her precinct. She at first wanted to bring the pair to justice,[2] but she eventually learned to trust the young crime-fighters.[3]Later, she took a squad of police officers to investigate a warehouse belonging to the same pharmaceutical company that was behind Cloak's and Dagger's powers. Some corrupt policemen, led by Roger Falcone, exposed the other police officers to a gas to asphyxiate them.  With her dying breath, Brigid swore vengeance on Falcone. As Brigid lay dying, Cloak and Dagger found her, and though were too late to save the other police, Cloak surrounded her and Dagger with darkness, while Dagger tried to revive her with light. When this appeared not to work, the pair abandoned her body to search for those responsible.[4]Though O'Reilly died, she was reborn as Mayhem. In this new form, Mayhem helped Cloak and Dagger find and fight the corrupt police. She then killed Falcone as promised.[5] She then became a vigilante, showing no mercy to the drug dealers and other criminals she pursues.Brigid was considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative program, according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report.[6]Mayhem exudes a green, venomous gas from her pores. If this gas enters another person's bloodstream, it paralyzes the person for a varying amount of time. Hence, Mayhem attacks people by raking their skin with her talon-like fingernails so that the gas will enter their bloodstreams.The gas can also act like a truth serum, forcing a victim of Mayhem to tell her the truth.Dagger's "light-knives" dissipate upon contact with this gas.Mayhem can levitate herself and fly.The Ultimate Marvel version of Brigid O'Reilly is a NYPD officer who is hunting down teenage criminals Styx and Stone in an effort to trace the Serpent Skulls gang. Her partner Terry Schreck is critically injured and soon dies in the hospital.[7] She later speaks to her informant Bart Rozum before learning that Terry's body had disappeared from the morgue.[8]