The Gamma Corps is the name of two fictional Gamma-based military units appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.The original Gamma Corps first appears in World War Hulk: Gamma Corps #1, and was created by Frank Tieri and Carlos Ferreira.The second Gamma Corps first appeared in The Incredible Hulk vol. 2 #601 and was created by Greg Pak and Ariel Olivetti.The Gamma Corps were selected as individuals whose lives had in some way been harmed or ruined by the Hulk. Using Hulk's DNA (acquired from the scene of a battle with Wolverine), these people were transformed into gamma-irradiated supersoldiers. The team was assembled by General Ryker with the objective of destroying the Hulk.According to the Marvel previews, they are armed with a variety of military weapons and have been trained to destroy the Hulk. Gideon, Grey and Mess are in the group because they hold the Hulk responsible for the loss of their loved ones, while Griffin and Prodigy hold more personal grudges against the green goliath.Their first mission involves tracking down the failed Hulk-copy experiment Private Benjamin Tibbits (AKA Flux) and killing him.They later appear in World War Hulk. After failing to defeat the Hulk, the Gamma Corps discover that he was not directly responsible for their individual situations, so they pursue the people who were, the Illuminati.The Gamma Corps return in the Dark Reign: Made Men series. Without the backing of the US government, the Gamma Corps become fugitives in hiding, but they continue to search for each Illuminati member. Prodigy believes Iron Man is approaching their base, alerting the group, but the Corps is surprised when it is Iron Patriot who arrives. Afraid he has come to arrest them, the group lashes out, unwilling to listen to him. Once Prodigy incapacitates the Patriot, Grey allows him to speak. He offers the Corps a chance at redemption by becoming his bounty hunters, bringing unregistered superhumans to justice. Eager to regain a purpose, the Gamma Corps agree.[1]The Gamma Corps later encounter Hulk's Doc Green form. Doc Green saves them from the Doc Green A.I. and then depowers the Gamma Corps members.[2]Some time later, Ryker (under the auspices of Norman Osborn) creates a second Gamma Corps, composed of female "volunteers" (mentally unstable ex-soldiers on death row) for the Origins Corporation's gene therapy program and sends them to capture the new She-Hulk so that her DNA can be harvested.[3] They kill Lyra's fellow A.R.M.O.R. agents and take her computer Boudicca from her, driving her to hunt them down, killing Morass by drying out her body.[4] The remaining two flee to a small town, attempting to hold the people hostage in order to make Lyra surrender.[5] In the ensuing battle, Lyra badly wounds Aberration, causing her body to mutate into a tumorous mess, before finally killing her with a pipe to the head. Axon threatens to electrocute all the townspeople unless Lyra surrenders.[6] Axon siphons most of Lyra's bioelectric energy, absorbing her powers. Lyra makes Axon angry, waning the stolen powers (Lyra's own Achilles' Heel), allowing Lyra to defeat her. Ryker's men then kill Axon by remote.[7]