Montana (Jackson W. Brice) is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is depicted as the leader of the Enforcers, a team of assassins usually employed by other villains such as the Big Man, the Green Goblin, and the Kingpin, which often places them in conflict with the superheroes Spider-Man and Daredevil.Montana has been adapted from the comics into numerous forms of media, most notably adopting the Shocker persona in both The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series (voiced by Jeff Bennett) and the 2017 Marvel Cinematic Universe film Spider-Man: Homecoming (portrayed by Logan Marshall-Green).Montana first appeared alongside the other Enforcers in The Amazing Spider-Man #10 (March 1964), and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.The character subsequently appears in The Amazing Spider-Man #14 (July 1964), #19 (December 1964), The Amazing Spider-Man Annual #1 (1964), Marvel Team-Up #39-40 (November–December 1975), The Spectacular Spider-Man #19-20 (June–July 1978), Dazzler #7-8 (October–September 1981), Marvel Team-Up #138 (February 1984), Tales of the Marvels: Inner Demons #1 (1996), Civil War: War Crimes #1 (February 2007), Daredevil #99-100 (September–October 2007), #102 (January 2008), and The Amazing Spider-Man #562-563 (August 2008).Montana appeared as part of the "Enforcers" entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #4.Jackson Brice was born in Bozeman, Montana. Along with Fancy Dan (Daniel Brito) and Ox (Raymond Bloch), he was a founding member of the Enforcers.[1] He has great proficiency with the lariat.Montana, Fancy Dan and Ox make their first appearance under the employ of the Big Man (Frederick Foswell). During this time, they have their first run-in with their longtime nemesis Spider-Man. During their first fight against the web-slinger, Montana's lasso skills initially prove successful but Spider-Man defeats the trio.[2]Over the next couple of years, Montana and the team would be employed by Lightmaster in one of his many schemes, again bringing them into conflict with Spider-Man, with similar results.[3] They would then lend their services to Tech-Master in his revenge plot against Harry S. Osgood, only to be defeated by Dazzler.[4] Montana and the team would also go up against She-Hulk at one point.[volume & issue needed]Following the 2006 "Civil War" storyline, Montana, Ox (Ronald Bloch) and Fancy Dan reunite to work for Mister Fear, which pits them directly against Daredevil.[5] After Mister Fear's arrest, the Enforcers are taken in by the Hood's organization.[6]Following the events of the 2008 "Spider-Man: Brand New Day" storyline, the Enforcers are patrons at the Bar With No Name. They take bets with a person calling himself "The Bookie", over whether Spider-Man will show up to battle "Basher", an unknown villain who claimed to have fought Spider-Man. Spider-Man shows up, but is revealed to be Screwball in disguise when the real web-head shows up. The Enforcers decide to get revenge on The Bookie, capturing him. The Bookie's father calls Spider-Man for assistance, and he agrees to help. Spider-Man defeats Fancy Dan and Montana.[7]In the story arc "Kill To Be You", Montana is the right-hand man of the Kingpin (Wilson Fisk), and shows contempt toward the Hobgoblin (Phil Urich). When Spider-Man and the Black Cat come to steal back the Reverbium, Montana falls out a window to his death while Hobgoblin saves Kingpin. Hobgoblin cruelly joked that "he'll be missed by everyone – except the pavement".[8]During the 2016-2017 "Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy" storyline, Montana is among the cloned villains by Miles Warren's company New U Technologies.[9] He is involved in a fight with the other cloned supervillains until it is broken up by the clone of the Prowler.[10]Jackson Brice appears as the Shocker in the live-action Marvel Cinematic Universe film Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), portrayed by Logan Marshall-Green.[25] This version is a member of Adrian Toomes' criminal enterprise and wields a modified version of Crossbones' vibration-emitting gauntlet. He is fired by Toomes after a weapons deal with Aaron Davis attracts Spider-Man's attention; when Brice threatens to expose the operation, Toomes attempts to intimidate him with one of Phineas Mason's weapons, but inadvertently disintegrates him instead. Brice's gauntlet and mantle are subsequently passed down to Herman Schultz.In 2009, Hasbro released an action figure of Shocker in their "Spider Charged" wave of toys based on The Spectacular Spider-Man.[26][27]