The Masters of Disaster are a team of supervillains appearing in comic books published by DC Comics. They are presented as a group of mercenaries who prefer to work for money. They are shown as metahumans with superhuman abilities. Each group member controls a superhuman ability related in some way to a force of nature: earth, wind, fire, and water.[1]The Masters of Disaster appeared in the second season of the live-action television series Black Lightning.The Masters are portrayed as enemies of Batman's Outsiders, Infinity Inc., and the Justice Society of America. Their powers are based on the elemental forces of nature.One of the Outsiders' earliest defeats is neutralized with the emergence of Looker. Looker defeats the Masters and frees the others.[2]The Masters are hired by Maxwell Tremaine to kidnap Sapphire Stagg. The Outsiders thwart this plot.[3]They assist Baron Bedlam and his Soviet-backed invasion of the country of Markovia which results in many soldiers dying during the invasion. The Outsiders attack an enemy camp and encounter the Masters. Learning from a previous encounter, the team defeats the Outsiders.[4]Windfall develops sympathetic feelings for the Outsiders and works behind the scenes to keep them alive. Windfall's defection leads to the Masters capturing and cloning her.[5]The Masters send Windfall's clone to infiltrate the team. Batman uncovers the ruse. The Windfall clone is then killed during battle while the real Windfall sides with the Outsiders.[6]New Wave, Shakedown, Coldsnap, and Heatstroke are inmates at a prison nicknamed the Slab. When Geo-Force is wrongfully arrested the Masters are inspired to plan a jailbreak. The Masters of Disaster and Geo-Force successfully escape from the Slab.[7]Windfall's sister New Wave does not like this. When Shakedown wants the team to work in peace, New Wave kills Shakedown, causing Windfall to leave the team.[8]The Masters of Disaster later gain Dust Devil and Mudslide as members when they go to steal something and end up fighting the Outsiders. When the Outsiders disagree on tactics, the Masters of Disaster get away.[9]In 2011, "The New 52" rebooted the DC Universe. During the "Forever Evil" storyline, Coldsnap and Shakedown are transferred to another prison with Deadshot. Heatstroke and New Wave later attack the prison transport in order to free them only to be intercepted by jet-pack wearing S.W.A.T. officers.[10]Coldsnap and Heatstroke later appear as members of the Suicide Squad when it comes to them assisting Katana in fighting the Kobra organization.[11]