Ms. Gsptlsnz (/ɡɪzˈpɪtləznəz/ giz-PIT-ləz-nəz), sometimes called Gizpy, is a fictional character who appears in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly in association with the superhero Superman.A variation of her Nyxlygsptlnz alias appeared in the sixth season of the Arrowverse series Supergirl portrayed by Peta Sergeant.A character named Miss Gzptlsnz first appeared in the comic book series Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen. Ms. Gzptlsnz was a female imp from the same fifth-dimensional plane as Mister Mxyzptlk.[1] The character was created by Jerry Siegel and Curt Swan, and first appeared in Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #52 (April 1964), where Mxyzptlk referred to her as his girlfriend, though Gzptlsnz developed a crush on Jimmy Olsen. Miss Gzptlsnz had similar implike proportions to Mxyzptlk. She reappeared in JLA #31 (July 1999) as the leader of a council of 5th dimensional imps passing judgement on Qwsp.Gsptlsnz is later seen in "Countdown" when Mxyzptlk is pulled through a portal by Monarch, and again when Mxyzptlk escapes.[2][3]In 2011, "The New 52" rebooted the DC universe. In the first issue of the relaunched Action Comics, an elderly character named Mrs. Nyxly was introduced as Clark Kent's landlady.[4] She is revealed to know Clark's secret identity as Superman.[5]After Clark's apparent death while attempting to save a man from committing suicide, she is revealed to be a princess from the fifth dimension. Her real name is Nyxlygsptlnz, also referred to as Ms. Gspltlnz, and she is the wife of Mr. Mxyzptlk and daughter of King Brpxz. She grants Clark a wish, and makes everyone forget that Clark Kent's death occurred. She is also revealed to be aunt of Ferlin Nyxly, a Superman villain and museum curator also reintroduced to the new continuity.[6][7]Another character from the fifth dimension, Vyndktvx, is hunting her and Superman as revenge for Mxyzptlk stealing his reputation and fiance. She is shot and killed after she tells Clark the story of how she came to Earth and the events that led to Vyndktvx's evil motives.[8]