Spike is the name of several fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. They are not to be confused with Spyke from X-Men: Evolution, nor with Spike Freeman, another character in the groups X-Statix and X-Force.Spike (Darian Elliott) is a character in the series X-Statix from Marvel Comics.Spike (Gary Walsh) is a character from New X-Men, who first appeared in issue #126 of that title. He was a student at the Xavier Institute before M-Day.Lance Gibson portrayed the role in X-Men: The Last Stand.The Spike (Darian Elliott) first appeared in X-Force #121, and was created by Peter Milligan and Mike Allred. He is a mutant that could generate razor-sharp spikes from his body, which he could fire outward with deadly accuracy.After watching video footage of independent hero the Spike in action, the Santa Monica, California-based mutant-superhero group X-Statix agrees to have him join the team. His antagonistic nature creates fighting and tension among himself and his teammates.During a battle with the mutant terrorist group the Brotherhood, the Spike aids the Orphan in killing one of the Brotherhood members by impaling her as she fell backwards from the Orphan's punch.[volume & issue needed] In another battle, in Central America, the Spike and the Anarchist competed to kill as many militiamen as possible.[volume & issue needed] Sometime later, after seeing Vivisector and Phat holding hands, the Spike's homophobic reaction causes another rift with the team.[volume & issue needed] The Spike eventually is killed by an impostor, who is himself then killed.[volume & issue needed]Spike (Gary Walsh) first appeared in New X-Men vol. 1 #126 (but did not receive a real name until eight issues later), he was created by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely. He was listed as depowered during the M-Day event.[1]Spike is a young mutant enrolled at the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning. Spike has the ability to extend sharp, pointed protrusions from his body.A variation of Spike named Evan Daniels / Spyke appears in X-Men: Evolution, voiced by Neil Denis. This version is the teenage son of an unnamed father and Vivian Daniels and nephew of Storm. While attending high school as part of the basketball team, Evan's powers begin to develop. Storm, Cyclops, and Jean Grey approach Evan's parents about him attending the Xavier Institute, but he refuses. After being framed as a thief by his former teammate Pietro Maximoff and being bailed out of prison by Charles Xavier, Evan takes the name "Spyke", joins the X-Men to defeat Pietro and clear his name. Throughout the series, Evan struggles with receiving unwanted special treatment due to being Storm's nephew and behaving selfishly, which culminates in him unknowingly drinking an energy drink that is toxic to mutants, losing control of his powers, and joining the Morlocks as a result. Over time, he would mutate into an armadillo-like form and gain the ability to heat his spikes while working with the Morlocks to fight humans committing hate crimes against them and other mutants, though he would join forces with the X-Men to defeat Apocalypse in the series finale.