Taserface is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is a supervillain and a recurring adversary of the original Guardians of the Galaxy.Taserface appears in several forms of media, such as the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017) and Disney+ animated series What If...? (2021) as a different version, portrayed by Chris Sullivan.Taserface first appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy #1 (June 1990), drawn and written by Jim Valentino. Valentino stated that his son Aaron Valentino, who was five years old at the time, came up with the name. Jim thought the name was "kind of lame...but no worse than Pruneface, Clayface, Two-Face or any other character with the word face as part of their name."[1][2]Taserface is an advance scout for the Stark and came from a planet inhabited by primitive beings. One day, a cache of armor and technology created by Tony Stark wound up on their planet. The inhabitants quickly adapted themselves to the new technology, calling themselves the Stark after their idol, and proceeded to misuse their new found gift to conquer other planets.He was deployed to the planet Courg to keep an eye on it and ended up fighting the Guardians of the Galaxy.[3] After his defeat he was tortured by his species and had his name taken from him. Now going by the name Nameless One, his hatred for the Guardians grew.[4]He pleads mercy to the High Sister for redemption and is given upgrades. He returns with the name Overkill after being transformed into a cyborg.[5] He fights Hollywood, an alternate version of Wonder Man, and is easily defeated. He attempts to detonate himself in a last minute revenge scheme, but Hollywood absorbs the blast, killing only Overkill.[6]Taserface possesses some degree of invulnerability due to being a cyborg. He also has a vast array of weapons at his disposal including repulsor rays, sensors and tasers. He also has the ability to absorb energy and redirect it.Taserface appears in the animated special Lego Marvel Super Heroes - Guardians of the Galaxy: The Thanos Threat, voiced by Travis Willingham.[7] He accompanies Yondu and the other Ravagers to steal the Build Stone from Ronan the Accuser.Chris Sullivan portrays Taserface in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This version is the lieutenant of Yondu Udonta's faction of the Ravagers.[8][9] Additionally, he is depicted as being proud of his name, believing it strikes fear into the hearts of his enemies. However, Rocket and the rest of the Ravagers scoff at the ridiculousness of his name. Taserface appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2,[13] voiced by Simon Kerr.[14]