Trash is a fictional mutant street gang appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.Trash is a street gang made up of superhuman mutant youths, and it was originally employed by an older mutant drug kingpin named the Garbage Man. The original lineup of Trash included Airhead, Blasting Cap, Brute, Crazy Legs, and Razor Cut. The Garbage Man employed the gang to run drugs to his various crackhouses. On one such mission, Trash encountered and fought Power Pack. Trash allowed the young heroes to follow them back to the Garbage Man's headquarters, hoping to trap them. Trash and Garbage Man beat and captured Power Pack, and Garbage Man ordered the gang to kill the members of Power Pack with a lethal overdose of drugs. When Trash refused, they were forced to fight their criminal employer, and they freed Power Pack to help. Blasting Cap blew up the Garbage Man's warehouse, but the members of Trash assumed that he had escaped and would find them later. Despite a hefty admonishing by Power Pack, and scarred by their bad experiences with society as they were, Trash surmised that becoming heroes like Power Pack was no option for them.[1]Sometime thereafter, Brute and Airhead left the gang. The three remaining members, Blasting Cap, Crazy Legs, and Razor Cut, relocated to Chicago at some point. There, a young man who dressed like Thor and went by the name of Thor Kid, joined the gang. When Thor Kid attempted to mug a young man named Troop, Thor Kid and Trash were attacked by Luke Cage. The people of the neighborhood united to chase the gang away.[volume & issue needed]Later, Trash approached Troop and offered him membership in the gang, asking him to help them take down Cage. The gang arranged to work for another employer named Rapidfire to acquire guns with armor-piercing rounds to try to kill Cage. Trash tried to ambush Cage, but Troop warned him and a fight ensued. Crazy Legs refused to shoot Cage, so Thor Kid smashed Crazy Legs with his hammer and took the gun. Razor Cut stabbed Thor Kid, telling him Trash would survive without him. Blasting Cap became overexcited by the infighting and caused the building to explode. Cage pulled Blasting Cap and Crazy Legs from the fire, but the fate of Razor Cut and Thor Kid is unknown.[volume & issue needed]