Turk Barrett is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted in stories featuring Daredevil, in which his inept schemes are played as comic relief.[1]Barrett was a recurring character in the Marvel shows Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, Iron Fist, The Defenders, and The Punisher set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, portrayed by Rob Morgan.Turk Barrett first appears in Daredevil #69 (Oct. 1970) and was created by writer Roy Thomas and artist Gene Colan.[1][2]Turk was a small-time crook operating in Hell's Kitchen, Manhattan. Roscoe Sweeney once sent Barrett to pay Jack Murdock to throw a boxing match.[3] Barrett was associated with a street gang called the Thunderbolts.[4] Barrett also worked for Eric Slaughter.[5] Barrett once stole Mauler's armor from Aaron Soames to confront Daredevil, but he is defeated in seconds during their confrontation.[6] Turk later stole Stilt-Man's armor, offering his services but the Kingpin declined to employ "idiots", and Wilbur Day contacted Daredevil with knowledge of how to defeat him.[7] Turk has spent quite a bit of time at Josie's Bar in New York City. His criminal associate Grotto often reluctantly participates in Turk's schemes. Turk once mugged someone at Christmas and intended to use the Yuletide attire of Santa Claus to swindle charitable donations from others. In this instance, when he was confronted by Matt Murdock, Turk stabbed the disoriented Murdock seriously, almost fatally wounding Matt.[8]During the 2016 "Civil War II" storyline, Turk is with the Kingpin when they hear from the barista Armand that his girlfriend Sonia went missing. They track Sonia down to a human trafficking business that Man Mountain Marko and Janus Jardeesh (Kingpin's former minion) were working for.[9]During the 2018 "Infinity Countdown" storyline, Barrett found the Mind Gem and started using its powers for his own personal gain.[10] While doing a ride-sharing scam as he's driving through Greenwich Village, Barrett stumbled upon a bunch of Skrulls attacking some monks that were delivering the Mind Infinity Gem to Doctor Strange at the Sanctum Sanctorum. Upon acquiring the Mind Gem during the fight, Turk begins to establish a criminal empire so that he can fill the void that was left when Kingpin left the criminal business. After briefly confronting Turk, Daredevil can somehow see again when in his presence. Turk uses the Mind Gem to get the judges to change their verdict on some criminals while gaining their loyalty and money. Daredevil caught wind of Barrett's goals and warned him about playing in the criminal big leagues.[11] Doctor Strange later tracked down Barrett in order to get the Mind Gem from him only for Turk to evade the Sorcerer Supreme. He is among the Infinity Gem holders that are contacted by Doctor Strange who wants them to come together as the Infinity Watch to safeguard the Infinity Gems from such calamities including Thanos.[12]During the "Infinity Wars" storyline, Turk attends a meeting of the Infinity Watch in Central Park. He is accompanied by Bullseye, Sandman, Spot, Tombstone and Typhoid Mary.[13] As the heroes are fighting Gamora's Requiem form, Doctor Strange takes Barrett to another dimension where Doctor Strange persuades Turk to hand the Mind Gem over.[14]In the alternate timeline of the 2005 storyline "House of M", Turk Barrett is a member of Willis Stryker's gang. After Stryker was defeated, Turk willingly followed when Luke Cage took control of the group.[15]The Ultimate Marvel version of Turk Barrett is a gangster. A criminal acquaintance of Aaron Davis, he has Jefferson Davis as his main enforcer, eventually leaving his territory to Wilson Fisk's criminal empire.[16]During the Secret Wars storyline, two variations of Turk Barrett are seen in different Battleworld domains. The first one resides in the Battleworld domain of Technopolis and is a cowardly henchman of Kingpin. He accompanied the Kingpin to a meeting with the War Machine Deputies. When a fight ensued, Turk tried to make an excuse to leave the fight.[17] The second one resides in the Battleworld domain of the Valley of Doom which is based from the remnants of Earth-51920 where every Marvel character is depicted in Wild West form. He is one of Mayor Wilson Fisk's minions. Barrett and the rest of Mayor Fisk's men attack Red Wolf when he tried to destroy Roxxon Dam. Upon being tipped off by Ben Urich, Sheriff Steve Rogers intervened and was able to put him in sheriff custody. Later that night, Mayor Fisk sent Turk and the other men to lure Sheriff Rogers out of the Sheriff Department so that they can kill Red Wolf. This plan didn't go well as Sheriff Rogers and Red Wolf were able to kill Turk and those involved in the attempt on Red Wolf's life.[18]In the "Old Man Logan" prequel "Old Man Hawkeye", Turk Barrett works as a bartender at Josie's Bar in Paste Pot Creek and is the uncle of Dwight. He is later killed by the Venom symbiote (possessing the Madrox Gang).[19]