Doomsday Clock is a superhero comic book limited series published by DC Comics, created by Geoff Johns, Gary Frank and Brad Anderson.[1] As a direct sequel to the graphic novel Watchmen by Alan Moore, Dave Gibbons and John Higgins,[2] this series concluded the plot established between The New 52 and DC Rebirth, featuring a massive roster of characters owned by DC Comics.[2]The following is a list of characters who have appeared.The Crimebusters is a superhero group that succeeds the Minutemen. The group was short-lived when the Keene Act that forbade non-government sanctioned superheroes was passed.Among its notable members are:The Minutemen are a superhero group that came before the Crimebusters. The group was founded in 1939 during the Golden Age. The group later disbanded in 1949 following some public controversies.Among its notable members are:The New Frontiersman is a newspaper that published Rorschach's journal, exposing Ozymandias' role in the New York Massacre.The DC Universe is where most of DC's mainline comics take place. As this reality acts as a "Metaverse", it also affects both the Multiverse and Dark Multiverse linked to it.[VIII]Arkham Asylum is a psychiatric hospital where most of Batman's enemies are locked up. It's known inmates are:Batman and his allies from Gotham City. The following characters are in this category:Big Monster Action is an expanded version of Big Science Action which is Japan's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:Black Adam and his allies from Kahndaq who are made up of those who gained asylum for the rejected metahumans around the world.The Court of Owls are associates of the League of Villainy. Representatives of the group attended their meeting.The Daily Planet is Metropolis' official newspaper. The following characters work for the Daily Planet:The Department of Metahuman Affairs (DMA) is a government agency established by Martin Stein that created its own metahumans in the United States. Among those involved are:Members of the Doom Patrol are among the superheroes that confront Doctor Manhattan on Mars. They consist of:The Doomed are India's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Elite Basu is Iran's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Great Twenty is an expanded version of the Great Ten that is China's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Green Lantern Corps are a group of intergalactic law enforcers who wield the green power ring. They alongside Firestorm were able to provide Mars with oxygen in order to confront Doctor Manhattan. Among its featured members are:The Hayoth is Israel's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Justice League is a superhero group that Superman, Wonder Woman, and Batman are a part of. Some of its members were among the superheroes that confronted Doctor Manhattan on Mars.[VI] Among its identified members are:The Justice League Dark is an occult branch of the Justice League. They are among the superheroes that confront Doctor Manhattan on Mars. Doctor Manhattan's analysis states that their magic is from the "scraps of Creation." Among its identified members are:Justice League Europe is France's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Justice Society of America is a team of superheroes from the Pre-Flashpoint era that existed since the 1940s. Lois Lane later finds a flash-drive that talks about them. Lois didn't know about the Justice Society until now. It was revealed that Lex Luthor was the one who discovered the drive and sent it to Lois Lane. When Doctor Manhattan undid the experiment that erased the Justice Society of America and Legion of Super-Heroes, the Justice Society of America appeared to help Superman fight the rampaging metahumans.[V]Among its identified members are:Knights Inc is the United Kingdom's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The League of Villainy was a gathering of villains who met to discuss the Superman Theory in an abandoned subway tunnel. The group was discovered by Comedian who crashed the meeting. Besides the Court of Owls and the Rogues, among the villains at this gathering are:The Legion of Super-Heroes are a superhero group that exist in the 31st Century.[IV] When Doctor Manhattan undid the experiment that resulted in the Legion of Super-Heroes and the Justice Society of America being erased, the Legion appeared to help Superman fight the rampaging metahumans.[V]Among its identified members are:The Metal Men are a group of robots. They are among the superheroes that head to Mars to confront Doctor Manhattan. The Metal men consist of:The New Gods are a group of beings that live on either New Genesis or Apokolips. Among the known New Gods are:The Outsiders have become Markovia's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:There is also a faction of the Outsiders that were previously established by Batman:The People's Heroes are Russia's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Rogues are a group of villains from Central City and enemies of Flash who join the League of Villainy.Billy Batson and his foster siblings associated with the wizard Shazam.The Sinestro Corps are enemies of the Green Lantern Corps.The Sleeping Soldiers are Australia's sanctioned superhero team. Among its identified members are:The Suicide Squad are a group of prisoners that work for A.R.G.U.S. where they do missions for the United States government in exchange for suspended sentences. Captain Boomerang mentioned that most of the Suicide Squad members were defeated by Black Adam in their mission to Kahndaq.Relatives and friends of Superman.[D]The Teen Titans are a group of young superheroes. Among its identified members are:The following characters appearing in this version are from real life.