The Cadre is a DC Comics supervillain group, except for members of the Cadre of the Immortal, most of whom were redeemed and became heroes by story's end.The Cadre first appeared in Justice League of America #235 (February 1985) and were created by Gerry Conway and Chuck Patton.[1]A cosmic alien villain known as the Overmaster began to test humanity's fitness to inhabit Earth.[2] He summoned a bunch of villains to him and gave them superpowers, and the villains became the Cadre. The Cadre has fought the Justice League on different occasions and has been through many incarnations of their group. Several members have died and new ones were recruited.[1]The original Justice League defeated the Cadre, after which the Overmaster vanished. Years later, he returned, acting through heralds such as the Aryan Brigade, the New Extremists, and the Cadre of the Immortal.There was also another version of the Cadre called the Cadre of the Immortal; this version was made up of international metahumans deluded by an agent of the Overmaster that claimed to be Prester John, the Immortal. He then announced his intention to destroy the Earth in one week, erasing Central City from the planet and stopping all deaths and births across the globe as proof of his power. The Justice League invaded the Overmaster’s spacecraft and used its technology to reverse all effects of the Overmaster’s activities. The Mahayogi was killed while freeing JLI member Maya from mind control. After the truth was revealed Seneca and Osiris joined the JLI in their battle against the Overmaster, but have not been seen in the DCU since.Overmaster was accidentally killed by Will Everett III, the second Amazing Man, after the Justice League member Ice had been killed by the villain. Following this event, the League moved into the Refuge, Overmaster’s space station, making it their new headquarters.Another version of the Cadre was formed with various members of minor DC villain groups such as the Extremists.[3]Another version of the Cadre, led by Doctor Polaris, was later formed and fought the Power Company.There were different incarnations of the Cadre. They are:Nightfall, Black Mass, Fastball, Shatterfist, and Maya have cameos in Harley Quinn: The Animated Series: The Eat. Bang! Kill. Tour. spin-off comic to the Harley Quinn animated series, with a revelation of a romantic relationship between Nightfall and villainess Livewire.Cadre members Shatterfist, Black Mass, Fastball, and Crowbar appeared in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Clash". They were defeated by Superman and Batman quickly. Black Mass, Fastball, and Nightfall later appear as members of the Secret Society. Shatterfist also later appeared fighting Hellhound in Roulette's metabrawl.